Welcome to session 231.
I'm your host, Raleiigh Ledet.
Today we're going to talk
about what's new with gestures.
And quite a bit, actually.
As you can see,
we have a lot to go through.
We've got some scrolling improvements
that we're going to talk about,
some great things going on there.
We have the smart magnification gesture,
which was actually released in line.
We now have public API for you to
be able to take advantage of that.
In a scroll view has done
some gesture adoption itself,
so you can take advantage of that.
We'll cover that.
We have a brand new NS page controller.
This controller makes swiping easy,
and we'll cover that.
We have the Quick Look gesture,
which has been around for a while.
We have public API for that,
so you can catch a Quick Look gesture
API and take advantage of that.
And we'll wrap everything up with
some best practices and how you can
future proof your application with
regards to gestures as we continue
to evolve gestures on the desktop.
So let's get right into
scrolling improvements.
One of the things you'll notice
right away with scrollers now is
when you roll over a visible track,
they automatically expand.
And so this gives you a little bit wider
thumb and a little bit wider track,
and it's easier to grab.
It's been working out really great.
But one of the interesting things about
this is that the track metrics are a
little bit wider than they were in Lion.
In Lion, we made sure the overlay track
metrics were actually the same
metrics as the legacy track.
And the legacy metrics haven't changed,
but the overlay scroller
metrics have changed.
And if you depend on that,
you need to be sure that you're calling
this API that was introduced in Lion,
scroller width for control size,
scroller style, and set the right style.
And you'll get the appropriate metrics.
And that way you can
adjust appropriately,
and the metrics can change in the future,
and you will just
automatically adapt for that,
and life will be grand.
I'm sure you've noticed right away
the other interesting thing is that
scrollers are not just a matter
of how many scrollers you have.
Overlay scrollers have a
new look in Mountain Lion.
We no longer have the
rounded caps in the track.
They're squared off.
The thumbs have a little
bit different look,
and they actually overlap
in the corners now.
And this means we also have a new
look for the other knob styles.
This is the dark knob style.
And along with changing
the knob style look,
the track now looks at the knob style
and adjusts accordingly as well.
So this is the expanded track
for the dark knob style,
and this is the overlay scroller.
And this is the light knob style and the
expanded track for the light knob style.
So you see how it works a little
bit better with your content.
So this is handled automatically for
you just by looking at the knob style.
So there's a new look.
Another really interesting thing
that we have in Mountain Lion,
and this only works on the Magic Trackpad
or the trackpad built into the MacBooks,
it doesn't work on the Magic Mouse,
but when you place two
fingers on a trackpad,
the scrollers will automatically appear.
They automatically appear
over wherever the cursor is.
The view that's under the cursor,
if that's a scroll view,
the scrollers will automatically appear.
This makes it really nice and much easier
to see where you are in your content and
get them to pop up when you need them.
Otherwise,
they're away and out of the way,
and you have complete
access to your content,
and you can focus just on your content.
[Transcript missing]
We have added accelerated
scrolling in Mountain Lion.
This is an iOS style scrolling
where if you continue to scroll on
the trackpad or the Magic Mouse,
in this case it works for both,
that the scrolling will become
accelerated and it will zip
through your content a lot faster.
The great thing is there's
nothing for you to do.
Scrolling delta is
automatically accelerated,
so this should just work
in your applications now.
You should give it a
try and check it out.
Apple takes care of the problem
of noticing when and recognizing
when the user has performed three
consecutive scroll gestures.
And at that point,
acceleration starts to kick in.
And as long as the user
continues swiping quickly,
the acceleration will increase.
If the user starts scrolling slowly
once they're in accelerated mode,
the system will automatically kick
out of accelerated mode and go
back to normal scrolling speed.
Or if the user waits too long
between physically scroll gestures,
between when they lifted their fingers
and when they touched their fingers
back on the trackpad or the Magic Mouse,
will automatically get out of
accelerated scrolling for you.
So again, there's nothing for you to do.
You should try it out
in your application.
It just works.
In fact,
let's go ahead and give you a demo
of the scrolling improvements.
So I have my Magic Trackpad here.
And we'll notice as soon as I put
two fingers to the trackpad,
the scroller appears.
We've got a little thumb there.
This is a very long document.
It's over 10,000 lines long.
It's a log file that I generated.
And you can see as I normally scroll that
that thumb doesn't move very much at all.
But on the third consecutive scroll,
you'll see the thumb starts to really
accelerate as I zoom through the content.
So we go one, two, three,
and you see that scroller.
That thumb really goes as I can
get all the way through my
content very quickly that way.
You notice I put two fingers
down as I go into the track.
It automatically expands out,
a nice little animation,
and it stays out until I roll back over.
And if your cursor is already
where the track should be
when you put two fingers down,
it shows up and goes away.
So that is scrolling.
So let's move away from the
scrolling gesture and talk
about smart magnification.
You might have seen this in Lion,
particularly in Safari,
if you did a two-finger double
tap over content in Safari,
that content would automatically
magnify at the appropriate level.
So let's take a look at that gesture.
It's a two-finger double tap.
Let's take a look at it again.
Two-finger double tap.
It's really easy, it's really great,
and it performs a smart magnification.
So we have a public way for you to
access this now in Mountain Lion with
a new responder method,
smart magnify with event.
And this suggests that
we have a new event type,
and indeed we do.
There's NS event type smart magnify.
The only properties that are
really valid for a Smart Magnify
event are location and window.
So you can find out exactly
where the Smart Magnify
gesture occurred and modifiers.
So you can find out what modifiers,
if any, were pressed on the keyboard
when the event occurred.
Along with the new event type,
we have a new event mask,
and it's Event Mask Smart Magnify.
And you can use this in your
local event observers or if you're
doing next event matching mask.
Though these are
generally one-shot events,
so it's probably not all that
useful for next event matching mask,
but for a local event monitor,
it might be interesting.
However, there's one rather large caveat
with these new event type,
and that they're 64-bit only.
It turns out on 32-bit,
we have a 32-bit mask for our events,
and we've run out of bits.
So we've had to restrict
this to 64-bit only.
What does it mean to Smart Magnify?
And to do this individually... Well,
the simple case,
we have some human interface
guidelines for this,
and the simple case is you just zoom
in 150%, you magnify back out to
100%, and you toggle between the two.
If the user has,
through the user interface,
or perhaps a two-finger
pinch magnify gesture,
have changed the magnification level so
you're not at 100%, if you're at anything
other than 100%, go back to 100%.
If you're at 100%, then you can zoom,
you can magnify to 150%.
But you can do better than that.
In Safari, you double tap on some div
content and that whole section
grows to fill the screen.
And so we have the more complex
version of the rules from
Human Interface Guidelines,
which works out well
depending on your content.
Magnify such that the width of the target
grouping fits inside the scroll view,
centering the target point
vertically if possible.
Magnify to 100% if the mouse
hasn't moved and already
magnified to the deepest grouping.
That's quite a lot to say,
even just reading it off the slide.
Let me sum it up for you.
Use in a scroll view.
Speaking of NSScrollView,
let's talk about
ScrollView gesture adoption.
As you might have guessed,
it's adopted magnification
and smart magnification.
So you have magnification and
smart magnification built right
into NSScrollView for you.
You no longer have to
implement it yourself.
And let me give you a quick demo of that.
So here we have a lovely
dinner recipe in TextEdit.
And just use a basic scroll view.
You can see the TextEdit source code.
And I'll do a two-finger
double tap on this table.
And you see it goes into Table.
And what's interesting here is not
only has ScrollView implemented
Smart Magnify and Magnify,
in this case, in its TextView also has a
little bit more intelligence to
work with ScrollView and will
automatically magnify the tables,
for example.
And I can even go another level deep
and zoom all the way into one cell.
So we can Smart Magnify again,
and we come back out.
So of course,
we also have regular pinch zooming.
So you could just use a
two-finger pinch zoom,
and it's nice and centered with where
you're pinching and will automatically...
moved the content around and it
automatically rubber bands at
the 1.0 scale factor for you,
which is great.
TextEdit has gone a little
bit further than just what
TextView provides and has added some
more magnification help for ScrollView.
And that if I smart magnify here,
it's zoomed in all the way into
the content past the margins.
So you could just look directly at
your content and manipulate that.
I'll give you another quick example.
Here's this little app.
This is just a little
sample app I put together.
And you can zoom in there.
And of course,
you can also smart magnify.
And it fills the content for there.
Or you can smart magnify, perhaps,
on the image of the dog.
And it'll smart magnify to the dog.
And that works out quite
nicely with very little code.
So let's focus on magnification first,
because smart magnification is built
on top of magnification in ScrollView.
There's a new property
on in a ScrollView,
allows magnification.
There's also a checkbox in
Interface Builder inside Xcode.
You can just turn that on.
You have to, as defaults to no,
you have to set allows magnification
to yes for ScrollView to
start doing magnification.
We can't just turn it on by default
because then lots of content and UI all
over the place would start magnifying
that really shouldn't perhaps magnify.
But it's really easy to adopt.
Along with allows magnification,
there's max magnification
and min magnification.
By default,
the maximum is set to 400%, or 4,
and the min magnification is set
to 25%, the actual value of 0.25.
So along with your min and max,
you have the actual magnification value.
And all four of these magnification
values are set to 0.25.
So all of these properties
are actually KVO compliant,
so you can observe them.
The most interesting one
being magnification generally.
And you can just set the magnification
and the ScrollView will magnify.
But it happens immediately whenever
you change the magnification.
And that's not necessarily
always what you want.
If you want to animate the magnification,
you should use the ScrollView's
animator and then call set
magnification and it will animate
the change in magnification for you.
And it will center that with
what the content already is,
which isn't necessarily
always what you want.
Particularly if you're looking
at a magnified gesture,
you have a particular point that you
want to center the magnification around,
and I showed you that in the demo.
And we have a nice method on In a
Scroll View to help you do that,
setMagnificationCenterAtPoint.
So perhaps the user is doing
a magnification gesture that's
centered around the dog's nose here.
We can call
setMagnificationCenterAtPoint,
and when magnification occurs,
we keep the nose at the exact same spot,
and that's exactly what the user expects.
We also have another method,
MagnifyToFitRect.
Perhaps you have a UI option for the
user where they can select a portion
of the image that they want to magnify,
and perhaps they select this portion.
You just pass the rect,
and we will fit that rect as best
as possible when we magnify it.
And of course,
In a Scroll View will respect the
minimum and maximum magnification,
so it will stop at the maximum
magnification levels if needed
in these examples as well.
Just like the magnification property,
however, when you call these methods,
the magnification occurs immediately.
So again, if you want them animated,
you just use the scroll view
animator and then use the appropriate
method on the animator and the
magnification will be animated for you.
So what's going to be really interesting
to know here is exactly how in a
scroll view performs its magnification.
Well, let's say you have a clip view here
and its frame is 0 by 90 by 90.
We get a nice square.
And in this case,
the content fits in there perfectly.
So its frame is 90 by 90 as well.
Then we want to magnify this image.
Well, your document is still
going to be 90 by 90.
That's what it is.
And the clip view frame is
also going to be 90 by 90.
What we do is change
the clip view bounds.
Normally the bounds are a one-to-one
relation with the size of the
view that's associated with.
But in this case,
we changed the clip view
bounds to 60-60 in this case.
And so we're trying to expand
60 points of document data into
60 points of document data.
And so we're trying to expand
60 points of document data
into 90 points of view space.
And this will apply the appropriate
transforms to the view automatically.
And you can look for this in your
document by converting to the
rect or size to the backing store.
And you can find out exactly how
many pixels you have to work with
so you can get pixel-accurate line
drawing or more higher resolution
drawing when you're magnified in.
And you can take advantage of that.
For those of you that already
did the math in this example,
it's magnifying out to 1.5,
which is 150%. Now that
we've covered magnification,
we can get back into smart magnification.
And the great thing is that
smart magnification handles those
HI guidelines we already talked about.
If you don't do anything and you've
told scroll view to allow magnification,
it will do the automatic simple zoom in
to 150%, magnify back out to 100%, and it
will handle that for you automatically.
However,
Your content,
you might want to do something
more intelligent like Safari does,
where it magnifies to the div content.
But ScrollView doesn't know anything
about the layout of your document view.
So you need to give
ScrollView a little bit of help,
and you do that by implementing
this method in your document view.
So you don't have to
override anything else.
You don't have to have a
custom ScrollView class or
delegate or anything like that.
Just in your document view,
implement rect for smart
magnification at point in rect,
return the appropriate rect,
and ScrollView will magnify accordingly.
And it gets a little bit better.
Let's walk through
exactly how this works.
Here we have some document view,
a couple of columns of text, for example.
And of course,
this is sitting in a scroll view.
We're not showing the
whole thing at one time.
And so this is the portion
that was currently visible.
And the user does a smart
magnification gesture at this point.
So we want to smart
magnify the left column.
A scroll view will call REC for
smart magnification at point.
That would be the dot on the screen
translated into the coordinate
system of your document view.
In REC, this is the visible REC,
which is what the scroll
view is currently showing.
And again, translated into the coordinate
system of your view.
And what you return,
which is really interesting,
is you return the REC for
this entire column.
Return the REC for the entire column.
And in a scroll view,
we'll take a look at the whole thing.
And we'll take a look at that and
look at the visible REC and we'll
figure out the appropriate thing
according to the current HI guidelines.
And in this case,
we'll magnify just like that.
As you saw in the example
with the table and text edit,
you can continue to go further
and further and deeper and deeper.
This is where you look at
the visible REC to see what
depth you're currently at,
where the gesture occurred.
And you can return a different
REC for some other portion of content
and keep going deeper and deeper.
Once you get to the deepest level,
and we only have one
level in this example,
the user performs.
And you can see that the user
performs a smart magnify gesture.
You're going to get called
back with the method.
And what you return that time
is the exact same REC that
you returned the first time,
this entire column.
And a scroll view will see that we're
already magnified to that column,
that we've already magnified
to that REC as best we can.
So we'll go ahead and zoom back
out to 100% for you automatically.
And that's how that works.
So you can let NS Scroll View handle
all the logic and HI guidelines that
are associated with smart magnification.
And it makes life so much easier
than trying to write a whole
bunch of code to do it yourself.
Along with the actual magnification
methods and responding to the gestures,
there's a couple of new notifications,
which may be interesting to some of you.
In a scroll view,
we'll start live magnification,
magnify notification,
and in a scroll view,
did in live magnify notification.
This occurs for both the smart
magnification gesture and
the pinch magnify gesture.
These are interesting because if your
content can't keep up with being redrawn
appropriately as the scale changes,
you might want to catch the
start notification and switch to
a static image or switch to some
lower resolution drawing model.
That way you can stay
responsive to the user.
It's real important to always
remain responsive to the user
and you don't want to lag behind.
And as soon as you get the did
in live magnify notification,
you can go back to drawing at
the best resolution that you can.
So that was Magnify and Smart Magnify.
Let's switch gears and talk
about NSPageController.
We'll talk about swiping,
two-finger swiping.
And NSPageController makes swiping easy.
Let me show you exactly
how easy that it is.
Last year,
I showed off this demo
application called Picture Swiper.
And it showed off how to use
track swipe with options,
dampen amount threshold.
It's a big, long method.
And this method allowed you to track
a two-finger scroll as a swipe.
It was really interesting.
And this project, as you can see,
has got 300 lines of code there and
another almost 300 lines of code there,
another 50 lines of code.
And there's some more code
there and another 75 here.
It's about 900 lines of code.
But it was really cool
because you could do this.
You have this nice little picture of
the dog and you could swipe through
the dog and swipe back through
your images and even magnify in and
you get a nice little bounce that
first time and then switch images.
So it's a really, really cool little app.
But this is 900 lines of code.
We can do better than that.
And with the new NSPage controller,
we do do better with that.
As hopefully you can see,
we have now a lot less files here.
And this is practically nothing
just to do some auto-sizing for us.
So there's 24 lines of code and another
94 lines of code here in the delegate.
And most of this is just pulling
in the application to finish.
And I want to point out that
I had taken out the big list,
if you've ever seen sample code, the big,
long disclaimer list that
Apple has at the top.
When I counted those 900
lines of code before,
that wasn't counting that.
I stripped them out.
So what we really have is the page
controller delegate starts at line 60
here and ends over here at line 94.
So a little over 30 lines of
code now to do the swiping.
And if we run this.
We see that it looks
pretty much the same.
You can magnify in, you get that bounce,
and you can go on to the next one,
and you're back just like we were before.
So we've gone from 900 lines
of code to the new code is a
little over 100 lines of code.
You know, that's a tremendous savings
right there for you in code,
and NSPageController makes this
so much easier and nicer to do.
Thank you.
So, NSPageController has two modes,
and we'll talk about
them a little bit more,
but there's a history
mode and a custom mode.
So, you can work NSPageController
in a couple of different ways
to make some different UIs.
Of course, you can make a history UI,
and you can do this in both
custom mode and history mode,
but history makes it a little bit easier,
as you've seen in Safari,
as you navigate through
your history in Safari.
App Store has adopted
NS Page Controller and is now
swiping in the App Store to
look through your history.
You also have in Dictionary.
Dictionary is implemented
in NS Page Controller,
and you can now swipe through
your history in Dictionary online.
That's really great.
They've also adopted
magnification on NS Scroll View,
so you can magnify into
the content of Dictionary,
which is really kind of cool.
Reminders, the new Reminders app.
This is a little bit different.
You're not navigating
through history here.
You're navigating through
a list of reminder cards,
but Reminders in this case also
is using NS Page Controller,
and they've adopted that as well.
Game Center has adopted it.
As you've seen, the cards,
the images slide.
You have similar slide animations like
this when you're changing screens,
for example, or as you're swiping through
application pages in Launchpad.
Some different interfaces
that you can apply.
The first thing to know
about NS Page Controller,
we're going to talk a little
bit about how it's constructed,
and then we'll get into each
of the modes and how each of
the modes works a little bit.
NS Page Controller is
an NS View Controller.
That's what it subclasses from,
so it starts off as
an NS View Controller.
This is something new in the kit.
We normally don't have
custom view controllers.
We have views, but in this case,
Page Controller is a
controller for a view,
and of course,
there's going to be a view.
You need to wire this view up
in your interface in Interface
Builder and provide the content.
But NSPageController will
then be responsible for
controlling things in that view.
Unlike NSViewController,
NSPageController automatically inserts
itself into the responder chain for you,
so you just wire it up to your
view and you don't have to
worry about the responder chain.
In addition to what
NSViewController provides,
NSPageController also has a
concept of a transition style.
We have three different
transition styles.
There's StackHistory, StackBook,
and HorizontalStrip.
I want to explain them a
little bit more in detail.
When you're looking at a
history type of interface,
like an app store or in Safari,
you start off showing page one content.
Then the user is going to navigate
somewhere and all of a sudden
there's going to be page two content.
Well,
where sort of logically is page one?
It's now behind page two.
As the user continues to go
forward and adding new content,
those pages get added on top of the
current pages that are already there.
So,
if you want to swipe back to page one,
the animation works that way.
If you want to bring page two back in,
if you want to move forward to page two,
you bring page two on top of page one.
So, that is how history works and
that's the animation for history.
But perhaps you have something
that's more like a book.
Reminders uses this transition style,
for example,
because they have a list of cards.
But for an example,
it would be multi-page PDF.
So you're seeing page one.
Where is page two?
Well, logically, just like a book,
page two is going to be
already behind page one.
So we want to move page one off
to the side and reveal page two.
If we want to bring page one back on,
we of course want to slide
page one back over page two.
So the animation is a
little bit different,
but it really works quite naturally
when you use it in practice.
There's also the strip,
which I'll cover briefly.
And this just lays your pages out
horizontally next to each other.
So they slide in like that,
and you can move back
to page one that way.
I want to make a real important note
here that these transition styles
are actually independent of the mode.
We've talked about those two modes,
and we have three transition styles.
They're completely
independent from each other.
I'll talk about that a little bit more,
but you choose which
mode you want to use,
and then you need to choose
the appropriate transition
style for your user interface.
In this page control,
we also have the concept of
an array of arranged objects.
These are just references to
however you want to organize your
pages and a selected index so
we know what the current page is.
And using the count of arranged
objects and the selected index,
it's easy to tell how many pages
you can go forward and how many
pages the user can go backwards.
There's three interesting IBAction
methods that NSPageController
implements and exposes.
Navigate back, navigate forward,
and take selected index from.
These are really interesting because
they're designed for you to wire
up your button in Interface Builder
right to the page controller,
and now you can navigate
forward and backward,
and it's animated for you,
and it works out really nicely.
Quick aside,
if you wire up take selected from index,
the sender of that message needs to
respond to integer value so we can
get the appropriate selected index.
Programmatically,
you can set the selected index by
calling setSelectedIndex new index.
And this happens immediately.
If you want to animate it,
you of course need to use the animator.
But Page Controller works a little bit
differently when you're animating content
than you would think of a normal animator
because we're bringing in a completely
new content here that is not there.
We're not just magnifying the content.
We're bringing in
something completely new.
And sometimes this takes
a little bit of time.
So one of the concepts
that Page Controller has is
when it does an animation,
you must inform it when to complete
the transition so that it can hide the
animation that's going on and reveal your
view once your view is ready to draw.
And that way it's seamless to the user.
And when you call the animator
setSelectedIndex in this example,
you are still responsible for
calling complete transition.
And so you need to do that
in a completion handler.
And we made that real easy with
an API on NSAnimationContext.
Run animation group.
Inside your group,
you ask page controller's animator
to set the selected index.
And then in the completion handler,
you call complete transition.
I'm going to cover complete
transition more in the next section
at the end of the next little
section about page controller.
So if it's a little bit confusing,
don't worry about it.
We're going to get to it shortly.
So if you're in -- once you use
Page Controller in History Mode,
what we were looking at when we
designed History Mode is we wanted
to manage the history for you,
and we wanted to be responsive
to what the user is doing at all
times and make it as simple as
possible for you to implement.
And so it works like this.
So you have-- NSPageController
has an NSPageController delegate.
Your view that you attach to
Page Controller is the content.
You draw whatever content
you want in this view.
You don't need to worry
about the arranged objects.
about the selected index.
Generally,
they don't even access those properties.
Whenever the user
navigates to some new page,
you simply call Navigate Forward to
Object on NSPageController.
In this case,
you set what the new object is, page two.
Something really interesting
happens here when that happens is
NSPageController takes a snapshot
of page one and hangs on to it.
And then once your code gets back from
calling Navigate Forward to Object,
you can show the contents of page two.
Just like history, and when you're doing
history in a web browser,
if you navigate three or four levels
deep and then you go back a few pages,
then you start navigating
in some new direction,
those pages that you came back
from that were on the forward
history stack have a new direction.
gone away.
Navigate Forward to Object does
that as well for you.
So it will add page two,
the next index on the Page Controller,
and it will automatically drop any
forward history that needs to be dropped.
And then finally,
when we get your return,
you can draw your content
for page two and continue to
respond to the user events.
At some point,
let's say the user now navigates and
they want to swipe back to page one.
Your delegate will be called
with Page Controller will
start live transition.
This is an optional delegate method.
It's useful, however,
for you to stash away state
that you might want to restore.
For example,
you might want to store the scroller
position and navigate back to it.
So when you navigate back to page one,
you can reset that scroller position.
So there's Page Controller will
start live transition.
We take a snapshot of page
two immediately at that point,
and then something really interesting
happens is we hide your view.
And Page Controller puts in its place
a custom animation view hierarchy,
and we bring back those snapshots in.
And this way we can remain immediately
responsive to what the user is doing,
and it provides a real smooth and
real nice interaction for them.
The user continues the swipe gesture and
releases their fingers from the trackpad.
And at this point,
they've swiped far enough with enough
speed that we've decided that this
gesture has completed successfully.
The animation hasn't completed,
but the user has performed
the gesture successfully.
Your delegate is called with page
controller did transition to object.
Again,
this is an optional delegate method,
but in history mode,
it's one that you're likely to implement.
You're given the page that
we're transitioning to right
there in this method call.
So again,
you don't have to look up the selected
index from the arranged objects.
You just handed it.
It's real easy.
You now just start getting
set up to display page one.
Your view is still hidden,
so you can start setting
properties on your view.
If you need to start loading something,
perhaps some network access,
you can start doing that here as well.
The animation then continues,
and the delegate is called with a page
control it did in live transition.
This is the delegate
method that you really,
really, really, really need to implement.
And what you do when you get
notified that the live transition
has ended is this is where we
need to inform Page Controller to
complete the transition.
Because at this point,
Page Controller still has up
its custom animation thing.
Normally, if you draw fast enough
and everything is fine,
if you're not doing any network loading,
you can just call complete
transition right here.
Other times, you need to note that the
live transition has completed.
And once your network
access has finished,
you can call complete transition when
your view is completely ready to go.
That way, when we drop the snapshot
that we had taken earlier,
it will exactly match the view.
If you call complete
transition too early,
you'll have perhaps a blank view
or perhaps white in there and
you'll get this flash and it
won't be a good user experience.
So that is why complete
transition is vitally important.
And that's history mode in a nutshell.
Real easy to use.
Again, in history mode,
you will have to set up the
transition style when you're
setting up in as Page Controller.
It's real easy to do
in Interface Builder.
You just set which
transition style you want.
And you're likely to want to use the
stack history style in that case.
Custom mode is all about continuing
to be responsive to the user,
but giving you, the developer,
more control over how NSPageController
works and taking snapshots.
If you're performing a
book-style user interface,
you'll probably need to use custom mode,
and that'll be a little bit
more apparent as I continue.
You can also do a history-style
user interface if you need more
control over exactly how it's done.
That's another reason why the transitions
are independent from the mode.
You could set up the appropriate
transition style and page controller
for custom mode for the type of
user interface you're building.
If you build a custom mode,
the way you trigger NSPageController
to use custom mode is you implement
PageController identifier for
object and PageController view
controller for identifier.
This is very similar to what
View-based table views does,
except that in returning views,
we ask for a view controller.
We will also cache the view
controller for the identifier,
and we will cache as many as we
need and only ask you to vend
view controllers as needed.
We'll go through an example
of exactly how that works.
Another major difference between custom
mode and history mode is that your
view in this case is not your content.
This view is just a
container for the content.
Remember, you're going to be vending view
controllers which have views and
we're going to be using those views.
What's really interesting to do in the
view that you wire up to page controller
is to draw a background there.
Treat this view as a
containing background view.
As the user is swiping,
particularly at the beginning
or the end of the content,
if they're trying to swipe further
backwards and there's no more to go,
or further forward and
there's no more forward to go,
we get a rubber banding
animation that occurs.
And you'll see through to the
background of your window.
So you'll need to draw the appropriate
background here for when that occurs.
This is custom mode.
It's a little bit more manual,
so you need to go ahead and set
the arranged objects yourself.
If it's multi-page PDF,
you know exactly what
the arranged objects are.
If it's a set of reminder file cards,
you know exactly what that set is.
And then you set the
appropriate selected index.
And at this point,
NSPageController has enough
information that it can call
PageController identifier for object
on the PageController delegate,
in this case asking for page one.
Then you're just going to return,
you don't even need
to inspect the object,
you can just return the same string
over and over as an identifier.
However, if you want to put up different
views based on your objects,
you can do that by returning
a different identifier here.
If we look in the cache and if
we don't have a view controller
for that identifier in the cache,
which of course we don't
yet in this example,
your delegate will be asked
for a page controller,
view controller for identifier,
and you create the
appropriate view controller,
load the nib, and return that.
At this point,
this view controller that you
return does need to vend a view,
and we will go ahead and ask the
view controller for that view.
Then your delegate will be asked,
page controller,
prepare view controller with object.
Now, this is an optional method.
View controller has a
represented object property,
and you can bind things to it,
which works out really well.
If you do not implement this method,
then page controller will
automatically assign the object,
page one in this example,
to the represented object
of view controller.
However, if you have more preparation
that you need to do,
you can do this and prepare
view controller with object.
And as page controller
takes a hands-off approach,
and you are responsible
for preparing your view,
setting the represented object,
if you still need to do that,
whatever you need to do to prepare it.
And finally, your view can draw page one.
I want to put out something very
interesting as a little aside here about
preparing a view controller with object.
You will actually be asked to prepare
a view controller with a nil object.
And this is so that we can draw
a blank version of your content,
but still have the appropriate look
of the table in the background,
whatever is appropriate for
this view without any specific
object associated with it.
And you will see why that is
important in a little bit.
At this point,
I just want you to realize if you
are implementing page controller,
prepare view controller with object,
you may be asked to
prepare with a nil object.
We can now take this view and add it
as a subview to the container view.
And the user can now interact with it.
At some point,
the user is going to want to navigate,
perhaps to page two.
The delegate will be called
with page controller.
We will start live transition.
Again,
this is an optional delegate method,
even in custom mode,
but it may be interesting.
And then we take a snapshot of page one,
and we want to start swiping to page two.
We've never seen page two before.
And so we need to grab
some page two content.
And what we do is we ask for
the identifier for page two.
And if we don't have a view
controller in the cache yet,
we ask you for a view controller.
And then we can grab a view.
And we will go ahead and ask you to
prepare that view controller with
the page two object in this case.
And then we're going to need
to draw page two content.
It can sometimes take a little
bit of time to draw content.
So we ask you to draw this
content on a background thread.
So it's important that you realize
that your content will be drawing
on a background thread in this case.
And you need to be prepared for that.
But what do we do in the meantime?
Well, a little bit earlier,
I'd had that aside about being
prepared for a nil object
with your view controller.
So we'll have already stashed away
a blank version of a snapshot.
We might have already navigated
to page two at some point in time.
So we might already have
a page two snapshot.
But we'll still ask you to draw an
updated one on a background thread.
And we'll go ahead and take
what snapshots we do have.
We will remove the current
view from the container view.
And we will add in our page two content.
controllers custom
transition view hierarchy.
We'll put the snapshots we do have
there and when you complete your
drawing on the background thread we will
replace that page two image whatever
snapshot we're using with the most
the most up-to-date image that we have.
Often this happens right away the user
doesn't even notice it at all by the
time you start to see page two content.
Other times that if it takes a little
while for you to prepare and to draw
your content it'll fade in on the
user and it provides a much more
fluid interface for the user and
it seems that swiping is much more
responsive to them because it is.
So the user swipes to page two and
that has been completed and you get
the just like before you get the page
controller did in live transition
and once again you need to tell page
controller to complete the transition.
Often you can just do this immediately
in this method and everything
transitions to the next page.
So you can see that the user is
swiping to page two and that has
been completed and you get the
just like before you get the page
controller did in live transition
and once again you need to tell page
controller to complete the transition.
Often you can just do this immediately
in this method and everything
transitions to the next page.
to a live view and it's
immediate and it's seamless.
Other times if you're loading content
that takes a little while just inform
page controller the appropriate time to
complete the transition and we remove
our custom transition hierarchy view,
view hierarchy and we replace
it with a new prepared view
controller with page two content.
And that's all there really is
to page controller and I want
to show you another demo.
This code is actually sample code
that you can find off the WWDC site.
And this is the wrong project.
We'll open up file cards here.
There's not very much to this project.
You know,
there's 90 lines of code in here.
Most of this is reading again,
reading the contents from disk.
It iterates over the objects
in your documents folder.
And this is just to do some binding
stuff with URL because you can't
just ask a name off of NSURLObject.
And this draws the background.
So that's all there really is to
this project and what this does.
It has a nice little view of the files
that are in your documents folder.
And we can go in here and we can swipe.
And we notice here that this looks
a lot different than this one
because the second file is an image.
So we can see the image and I use
a different identifier here and
I use a different view controller.
So we can swipe between them.
Of course, it's really easy to change
your transition styles.
So they change in the back.
The buttons are just wired right up
and you can even click in the table and
all the animations occur automatically.
It's hardly any lines of code,
and you get a nice user interface.
Some notes about NSPageController,
though,
is if you want to have your view that
is swiping inside of a split view,
you can do that,
but if you're in history mode,
you need to be careful because split
view looks at how many subviews it has,
and that's how it decides
how many dividers it needs.
And as soon as NSPageController
tries to put its private view
hierarchy to do the transitioning,
NSPageController will see
that and add a third divider,
and that's not what you want.
It's easy enough to get around.
You just put a blank custom NSView there,
and then you apply the view that you
do want to have your content as a
subview of that exactly the same size,
and that's what you wire
up to NSPageController,
and a split view is none the wiser.
I want to remind you again that
Snapshots in custom mode are
drawn on the background thread,
so you need to either be thread
safe or take precautions.
As an example,
in a stable view isn't exactly
thread safe when it comes to drawing.
But there's an easy way
of working around this,
in that once you've prepared for
your view that has a table in
there and you've loaded your data,
don't ask in a stable view for that
view to reload its data while drawing
is going on and you'll be fine.
If the table view does
start to reload data,
you ask it to reload data
while the drawing is occurring,
I will guarantee you that it will crash.
A really interesting note,
if you have the view that's
attached to NSPageController,
if that is set to once layers and
it's layer backed or one of its
parent views are set to once layers,
so it's therefore layer backed,
instead of taking snapshots,
we still use our custom transition
hierarchy to do all the animation,
but we actually use live layers instead
of taking snapshots because the layers
aren't asked to redraw as much as
they're coming in and out and we can
still get good performance that way.
Let's switch gears from talking about
swiping and we'll talk about Quick Look.
Quick Look's been around for a while.
It was a three-finger double tap and
it would pull up a dictionary panel
over what word you double tapped on.
It is now a three-finger single tap.
It's a lot easier to use now.
might not realize it,
but you could also trigger
Quick Look previously with a hotkey,
Command Control D.
Of course, this is user customizable,
so the user might change it.
But Command Control D will
perform the same gesture as
a three-finger single tap.
We have a new responder method so that
you can catch the Quick Look event.
It's a Quick Look with event,
which implies, of course, again,
that we have a new event type, and we do,
and it's event type Quick Look.
The only valid property of a
Quick Look event is location and window.
So you can find out exactly
where this gesture occurred.
Where's the cursor?
technically modifiers
is a valid property,
but remember,
this can be triggered with a hot key,
which is likely to use a modifier,
and the user can change
this to something else.
So modifiers isn't really useful,
so only particularly look at location
and window for the Quick Look gesture.
There is no corresponding
event mask for this event.
So you cannot add a local
event monitor to catch it.
You can't catch it in an override
of NS application send event.
You can't catch it with next
event matching mask because there
is no corresponding event mask.
And this is just due to the
way Quick Look works in that it
can come in from a three-finger
single tap or a hot key.
And so to get things to be
massaged into an appropriate event,
there's no corresponding event mask.
bit mass for you, so that may or may not
be important to you.
We also have this other IB action method,
which is interesting,
Quick Look Preview Items.
If the user performs the hot key
gesture and the cursor is not visible,
we don't know where the gesture occurred.
And in that case,
we'll actually call this action method.
We'll find the first
responder of the window,
and we will go through the
responder chain as normal
using this IBAction method,
Quick Look Preview Items.
And it's great that
it's an IBAction method,
because if you also have a
Quick Look button somewhere
in your user interface,
you can just wire that up to the first
responder for Quick Look Preview Items,
and you don't have to
do any additional work.
You can rely on what's already there.
there.
So if you want to do override Quick Look,
you have both of these
responder methods to override.
If you don't implement them
or you forward them up the
responder chain normally,
they'll eventually get to NSApp,
and NSApp will route that
to dictionary lookup,
and the panel will come up if
it's on overtext and show you
the dictionary information that
it's associated with that area.
There is a bug that I want to point out
that once the event gets to NSWindow,
it automatically gets
directed over to NSApp,
which means NSWindowController
doesn't get a chance to see this.
So you can't catch Quick Look events
in NSWindowController right now,
and that's important for you to know.
We'll bring back up this little demo app.
And I've got a lot of text here.
And we can, for example,
do a three-finger single tap and let
it bubble up to the dictionary lookup.
And we find out that gray wolf is
just another term for a timber wolf.
Oh, well, that's great.
Now, dictionary has no concept about what
to do with this image that I have here.
It can't do a lookup.
But now I can override the public API,
get a Quick Look,
capture the Quick Look gesture,
and actually use the Quick Look API and
get a Quick Look at the image.
So that was a lot.
Let's talk a little bit about
future proofing your application
when it comes to gestures and
talk about some best practices.
The first thing and the most important
thing you can do to future proof your
application is to use the built-in
implementations where possible.
And as ScrollView now adopts Magnify
and Smart Magnify gestures and can do
a lot of the heavy lifting for you,
and particularly with smart magnification
and handling the human interface
guidelines associated with that.
So use the built-in
implementations where possible.
When it comes to scrolling,
you want to observe NS Clip View bounds.
I've seen a lot of code where
people override scroll wheel to find
out how the content is scrolling.
And the content can be scrolled
a lot of different ways
than just the scroll wheel.
It might be a keyboard action or
you might do it programmatically.
And so they have all these
catches to try and find out how
the scroll view is scrolling.
You can simply observe NS view Clip
View bounds changes with NS view
bounds did change notification.
And this is really very easy to set up.
You just get the default
notification center.
You add observer,
whatever selector you want for the name
NS view bounds did change notification.
And the object you want to observe is
the content view of the scroll view.
So scroll view content view.
Now you'll be informed of the
bounds changes for Clip View.
And so this makes it a
lot easier to handle,
for example,
keeping two scroll views in sync so you
can watch as the Clip View bounds change.
End gestures are really interesting.
As a gesture starts to occur,
whether it's a magnify or
rotate or whatever gesture,
it might have passed through a
couple of different layers in the
responder chain before somebody
is really taking advantage of it.
But everybody in the responder chain
might need to know when the gesture
actually ended so that it can clean up.
So it's real important that if you
get a Clip View balance change,
you can see that it's
not just a single change.
You get an end gesture with event
or you get an event with an end
phase that you go ahead and forward
those through the responder chain.
This is particularly important
for scroll wheel events,
particularly if you have
nested scroll views,
for example.
The scroll events will start getting
bubbled up the responder chain
and up to the parent scroll views.
And it's real important that if you
get a scroll wheel event with an end
phase or a cancel phase that you,
if it's a local event observer,
that you return that event.
Instead of returning nil,
you call super and you let it continue
to go through the responder chain
so that everybody that was watching
this gesture sees that it ends or
cancels and can clean up their state.
So that's it.
I want to leave you with a quick summary.
There was a lot that we
covered in this talk.
So the most important thing to
know is we have API hooks for
Smart Magnify and Quick Look gestures.
Please use them,
implement them in your application,
take advantage of them.
has built-in support for magnification,
particularly when it
comes to smart magnify.
Let NSScrollView do the
heavy lifting for you.
Let it worry about the HI guidelines.
As our HI guidelines evolve over time,
NSScrollView will automatically
pick those changes up.
You won't have to do anything.
The appropriate change will
automatically happen for you.
So again,
that's gesture proofing your code,
future proofing your code with gestures.
We have NSPageController,
swiping made easy.
It's dramatically easier to do
swiping now than it was in Lion.
It's a great class.
I suggest you check it out and where
you can add swiping to your application.
For more information, you can contact our
UI Frameworks evangelist,
Jake.
And we have his email up there.
Of course, see the documentation.
We have the release notes.
I've checked them this morning.
The updated release notes,
particularly for NSPageController,
are there.
It's got a nice big section.
And we have the developer forums.
So you can ask questions there.
And I will reply to those as I see them.
We have some interesting
related sessions.
I talked a little bit
about layer backing,
particularly with Page Controller.
And where you can,
go ahead and go layer back.
We've got some nice improvements to layer
back views in AppKit and Core Animation.
Corbin already did
this talk on Wednesday.
If you missed it, I highly recommend that
you rewatch it on video.
If you're interested in
how gestures work on iOS,
coming up next in this room is
building advanced gesture recognizers.
This is a really great talk.
So if you're interested in
how gestures work on iOS,
please stick around.
That's it.
Thank you very much.
Have a good evening.